# Recertification and the Current State of AWS Exams

Three years ago I wrote one of my first blog posts titled "[My Journey to become 5 times AWS Certified](https://ervinszilagyi.dev/articles/my-journey-to-become-5-times-aws-certified.html)". This was right after I received my badge for the Solutions Architect Professional certification. I was happy and relieved back then after I managed to successfully pass one the most challenging exam.

The said thing about AWS exams is that they have an expiration date. They are valid for 3 years, after which you either recertify or you just simply move on with your life. Recertification is sitting through the same exams all over again. If you go for the professional exams and successfully pass them, the associate exams will be automatically renewed, which means that it was enough for me to go for both the Devops Professional and Solutions Architect Professional exams.

## Preparation

For the preparation I used the same resources as I was using 3 years ago. For the Devops exam, back then I purchased [Stephane Maarek's course](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-devops-engineer-professional-hands-on) from Udemy. I also had my notes from 3 years ago. The problem with this course is that is was entirely redone by Stephane. Admittedly, a lot of changed since back. There is a new version of this exam, DOP-C02, which requires knowledge for a set of new AWS services such as Security Hub, Control Tower, Network Firewall, etc. Moreover, AWS tends to introduce updates and new features for most of its offerings. The unfortunate thing is was that Stephane's re-shot over 90% of his course material, meaning that I had to go over everything again. Admittedly, I skimmed over certain lessons and I did not do any practical exercise. I work with AWS daily, I din not feel the need to do any of those.

For the Solutions Architect Professional exam back then I purchased the course from Adrian Cantril. In contrast, this course remained roughly the same as 3 years ago, with additional updates for certain topics. The Direct Connect portion, for example, received a major overhaul. Adrian added all the DX content from the Advanced Networking course to the Solutions Architect Professional course, which might be an overkill for the SAP exam. At least we have everything we need there.

As a recommendation, I found really hard to recommend the course from Stephane on its own. Admittedly, Stephane himself, recommends to go through his courses from the associate exams before going for the professional ones. The Devops exam really dropped the ball in terms of difficulty, and I think the course material as not as detailed to be enough for the exam.

Adrian's course is very lengthy with lots of practice examples. While this course covers most of the necessary topics for the exam, it still has some things missing. I'm confident there will be updates and more with more topics. As recommendation, for both of the exams, you should download the exam guide (can be found [here](https://d1.awsstatic.com/training-and-certification/docs-sa-pro/AWS-Certified-Solutions-Architect-Professional_Exam-Guide.pdf) for the SAP and [here](https://d1.awsstatic.com/training-and-certification/docs-devops-pro/AWS-Certified-DevOps-Engineer-Professional_Exam-Guide.pdf) for the DOP) and go through the Appendix part with the list of services. You should at least search for each AWS services from there be able to know what service is used for what purpose. Admittedly, there are services which are important for each exam, and these require in-depth knowledge, but for many of those it is enough to know what they are used for.

In terms of practice questions, I've used the ones from TutorialDojo and also the ones from Digital Cloud Training. Again, I prepared from the same questions 3 years ago, but I was not able to recall any of those questions from back then. These questions sets are good, but unfortunately they start to show their age, specifically those from TutorialDojo. Specifically, the Devops question set does not reflect the difficulty what you will face in the exam. Probably I was unlucky or something, but the question set I got in the exam focused really hard on AWS Organizations, Control Tower, Security Hub and on many other newer features. These topics were barely covered in the question sets from TutorialDojo and Digital Cloud Training. Credit where credit is due, the SAP question set from Digital Cloud is really good, to the point that for certain questions in the live exam you may have a deja-vu feeling.

A better question set comes from AWS themselves on their SkillBuilder site. Understandably, these are as close as you can get to whatever you might face in the exam. Sadly, the question set contains only 20 questions, but at least it is for free. A recommend going through these questions regardless of what AWS exam you take.

## Exam Experience

I took the Devops exam on May, after which I took the Solutions Architect Professional in August. Starting with the Devops exam, I must confess, I had a rough experience. I was aware 